The National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration’s National Marine Fisheries
Service (NMFS) intends to promulgate regulations to reduce the takes of endangered
and threatened sea turtles in trawl fisheries on the Atlantic Coast and the Gulf of
Mexico. In order to prepare a draft environmental impact statement as well as to
gather information on these planned regulations, NMFS is undertaking a scoping
process. The scoping process will be the first stage in a multi-step process required by
the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) to ensure that Federal agencies
evaluate the environmental impacts of major Federal actions. During the scoping
process, the public is provided with an opportunity to assist NMFS in determining the
scope of issues that require analysis. The analysis of issues and the environmental
impacts of the proposed actions will be presented in a Draft Environmental Impact
Statement (EIS), which will be made available for public comment. This scoping
document is prepared as an aid to the public on the scoping process that NMFS is
about to undertake.
In the early part of this decade, NMFS recognized the need to prevent or minimize
address sea turtle bycatch in a more comprehensive manner. NMFS thus developed
the Strategy for Sea Turtle Conservation and Recovery in Relation to the Atlantic
Ocean and Gulf of Mexico Fisheries (Strategy). This Strategy is intended to address
sea turtle bycatch by gear type instead of by fishery. Further, since the Strategy will
be promulgated under the Endangered Species Act (ESA), 16 USC 1531 et seq.,
NMFS will be able to better address sea turtle takes in state and Federal fisheries.

After several years of data collection and analysis, NMFS determined that the first
gear type to address sea turtle bycatch would be trawl gear, given information
indicating that estimated average annual bycatch for the Mid-Atlantic bottom otter
trawl was 616 loggerheads per year (Murray 2008), along with an additional 134
loggerheads caught annually in scallop trawl gear (Murray 2007 and NMFS 2008). In
February 15, 2007, NMFS published an Advanced Notice of Public Rulemaking
(ANPR) to amend the regulations for the use of turtle excluder devices (TEDs) in
several fisheries (72 FR 7382). Those fisheries included the flynet, whelk, calico
scallop, Atlantic sea scallop and summer flounder. The ANPR also noted that NMFS
was considering replacing the summer flounder fishery sea turtle protection area,
boundary, described at 50 CFR 223.206(d)(2)(iii), with a general sea turtle protection
area boundary.
NMFS received 165 comments during the comment period for the ANPR, the
majority of which were nearly identical. Many of the comments indicated support for
the TEDs requirements in trawl fisheries and as well as closure of “key sea turtle
habitat areas.” Other comments received suggested that a deflector for trawl fisheries
might be an approach to be considered. 