It's been a while since I posted on Facebook in my own words, so long that I wonder if I even still know how to. It's amazing how I can actually glance at my Facebook wall and see the subtle changes that marks my growth as a person. I've said this a million times, and I'll say it again - I've changed.
I used to put a lot of importance on people, and how they they can build you up, make you who you are. It isn't untrue. I've known some incredible people in my life who individually changed me in so many ways. Some of them picked me up, some of them hurt me, but all of them helped me learn and grow.
And the one lesson I've learned from them collectively is that *expecting* people to make you is unhealthy.
I've written posts on how some people are amazing, and how you should hold on to them with all you've got because they help make you who you are, but that's not how people work. People change. People who used to be powerful instruments who resonate with your personal growth become less prominent. People who used to be able to empathize with you, read you like a book can change so drastically that they might not even know who you are anymore. People are dynamic, ever-changing, and expecting compatibility with people who aren't constantly there in your life is like waiting on a lottery ticket - if you're incredibly lucky, you win, but you certainly never bet all you have on the lottery.
That's why staying in touch is important. People who lose touch grow apart, it's idiotic to believe that you'll definitely meet again years later and it'll be the same. It might, but don't bet on it.
That's why you need to choose who's important to you, and you need to make sure they believe you're important to them as well. There's no point in pursuing a one-sided love - friendship works the same way.
That's why you need to occasionally go out of your way for the people you consider important. If you choose to focus all your resources on a few people, you need to be okay with the fact that you might be stepping on some other hearts that yearn for your time and energy - hearts that may not be there for long.
Make sure you're not a heart who's stepped on. If someone you believe is close to your heart doesn't feel the same way, get out quick, or let yourself be hurt by it.
And most importantly? Don't lose your sense of individuality. The ability to make your own decisions and build your own life is invaluable, and too many people lose that ability in other people. Let your friendships be symbiotic, not codependent. The minute you fail to do this, you push away people who would've liked to be more to you, because you already have all you need - which also means that you never leave yourself open to receive more.

The ability to make your own decisions and build your own life is invaluable and too many people lose that ability in other people .
Ive written posts on how some people are amazing and how you should hold on to them with all youve got because they help make you who you are but thats not how people work .
Thats why you need to occasionally go out of your way for the people you consider important .
Ive known some incredible people in my life who individually changed me in so many ways .
People are dynamic everchanging and expecting compatibility with people who arent constantly there in your life is like waiting on a lottery ticket  if youre incredibly lucky you win but you certainly never bet all you have on the lottery .
If you choose to focus all your resources on a few people you need to be okay with the fact that you might be stepping on some other hearts that yearn for your time and energy  hearts that may not be there for long .
I used to put a lot of importance on people and how they they can build you up make you who you are .
The minute you fail to do this you push away people who wouldve liked to be more to you because you already have all you need  which also means that you never leave yourself open to receive more .
And the one lesson Ive learned from them collectively is that expecting people to make you is unhealthy .
If someone you believe is close to your heart doesnt feel the same way get out quick or let yourself be hurt by it .